Introduction
============

What is TeXnicCenter?
---------------------

TeXnicCenter is an integrated development environment (IDE) that provides
features for creating, editing and compiling LaTeX documents on Microsoft
Windows 2000, XP, Vista and Windows 7.  TeXnicCenter's editor recognizes LaTeX
commands and highlights them making it easier to understand the structure of a
document.

The compilation process that converts LaTeX documents into a typeset output can
be started by simply choosing a menu item or clicking a toolbar button. LaTeX
compiler diagnostics are analyzed and the result is displayed in a separate
window. This allows to easily navigate through the error, warning, or bad box
messages by clicking an appropriate toolbar button

Viewing the typeset document is easy with TeXnicCenter. Just choose the
appropriate menu item and the right viewer application will be started.
Document viewers that support TeXnicCenter's `inverse search` will allow to
switch between the typeset document and the corresponding line in the source.

TeXnicCenter's aim is to support unexperienced LaTeX users by providing most
important LaTeX constructs via menu entries without the need to remember every
command.  Furthermore,  the execution of the LaTeX compiler and additional tools
like MakeIndex and BibTeX is handled automatically: Users do not have to
remember command-line parameters. TeXnicCenter supports advanced LaTeX users as
well by providing a powerful, fully customizable integrated development
environment.

Requirements
------------

To generate documents TeXnicCenter requires a LaTeX distribution to be
installed. Major LaTeX distributions supported by TeXnicCetner are `MiKTeX
<http://miktex.org/>`_ and `TeX Live
<http://www.tug.org/texlive/windows.html>`_.

